Sentence 1: 



                ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

                          Lewis Carroll

               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 2.9




                            CHAPTER I

                      Down the Rabbit-Hole


  Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation?'

  
Sentence 2: So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  
Sentence 3: There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself, `Oh dear!  
Sentence 4: Oh dear!  
Sentence 5: I shall be late!'  
Sentence 6: (when she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);
but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  
Sentence 7: In another moment down went Alice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  
Sentence 8: The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a
moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down a very deep well.

  
Sentence 9: Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to
wonder what was going to happen next.  
Sentence 10: First, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to
see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;

Sentence 11: here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.  
Sentence 12: She
took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was
labelled `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it
was empty:  she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing
somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she
fell past it.

  
Sentence 13: `Well!' thought Alice to herself, `after such a fall as this, I
shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs!  
Sentence 14: How brave they'll
all think me at home!  
Sentence 15: Why, I wouldn't say anything about it,
even if I fell off the top of the house!'
Sentence 16: (Which was very likely
true.)

  
Sentence 17: Down, down, down.  
Sentence 18: Would the fall NEVER come to an end!  
Sentence 19: `I
wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?'
Sentence 20: she said aloud.

Sentence 21: `I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth.  
Sentence 22: Let
me see:  that would be four thousand miles down, I think--' (for,
you see, Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her
lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a VERY good
opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to
listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over) `--yes,
that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude
or Longitude I've got to?'  (Alice had no idea what Latitude was,
or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to
say.)

  
Sentence 23: Presently she began again.  
Sentence 24: `I wonder if I shall fall right
THROUGH the earth!  
Sentence 25: How funny it'll seem to come out among the
people that walk with their heads downward!  
Sentence 26: The Antipathies, I
think--' (she was rather glad there WAS no one listening, this
time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) `--but I shall
have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know.

Sentence 27: Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?'
Sentence 28: (and she tried
to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling
through the air!  
Sentence 29: Do you think you could manage it?)  
Sentence 30: `And what
an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking!  
Sentence 31: No, it'll
never do to ask:  perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.'

  Down, down, down.  
Sentence 32: There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon
began talking again.  
Sentence 33: `Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I
should think!'  
Sentence 34: (Dinah was the cat.)  
Sentence 35: `I hope they'll remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time.  
Sentence 36: Dinah my dear!  
Sentence 37: I wish you were
down here with me!  
Sentence 38: There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.

Sentence 39: But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  
Sentence 40: And here Alice began to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `Do cats eat bats?  
Sentence 41: Do cats eat bats?'
Sentence 42: and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?'
Sentence 43: for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  
Sentence 44: She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump!
Sentence 45: thump!
Sentence 46: down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  
Sentence 47: Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  
Sentence 48: There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  
Sentence 49: She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  
Sentence 50: There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  
Sentence 51: Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall; but, alas!
Sentence 52: either the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  
Sentence 53: However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  
Sentence 54: Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.

Sentence 55: How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  
Sentence 56: Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  
Sentence 57: I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.'  
Sentence 58: For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things
had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few
things indeed were really impossible.

  
Sentence 59: There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,) and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifully printed on it in large letters.

  
Sentence 60: It was all very well to say `Drink me,' but the wise little
Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry.  
Sentence 61: `No, I'll look
first,' she said, `and see whether it's marked "poison" or not';
for she had read several nice little histories about children who
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant
things, all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules
their friends had taught them:  such as, that a red-hot poker
will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had
never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or
later.

  
Sentence 62: However, this bottle was NOT marked `poison,' so Alice ventured
to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort
of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast
turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished
it off.

     
Sentence 63: *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `What a curious feeling!' said Alice; `I must be shutting up
like a telescope.'

  
Sentence 64: And so it was indeed:  
Sentence 65: she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right
size for going though the little door into that lovely garden.

Sentence 66: First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was
going to shrink any further:  she felt a little nervous about
this; `for it might end, you know,' said Alice to herself, `in my
going out altogether, like a candle.  
Sentence 67: I wonder what I should be
like then?'  
Sentence 68: And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

  
Sentence 69: After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice!
Sentence 70: when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  
Sentence 71: `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'

Sentence 72: She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  
Sentence 73: `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  
Sentence 74: Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  
Sentence 75: Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.

Sentence 76: `Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  
Sentence 77: She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  
Sentence 78: Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  
Sentence 79: So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     
Sentence 80: *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of Tears


  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was!  
Sentence 81: Good-bye, feet!'
Sentence 82: (for when she looked down at her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
far off).  
Sentence 83: `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  
Sentence 84: I'm sure _
Sentence 85: I_ shan't
be able!  
Sentence 86: I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go!  
Sentence 87: Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.'

  
Sentence 88: And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.

Sentence 89: `They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  
Sentence 90: And how odd the
directions will look!

            
Sentence 91: ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).


Sentence 92: Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

  
Sentence 93: Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

  
Sentence 94: Poor Alice!  
Sentence 95: It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  
Sentence 96: `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
this way!  
Sentence 97: Stop this moment, I tell you!'  
Sentence 98: But she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  
Sentence 99: After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.

Sentence 100: It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, `Oh!
Sentence 101: the Duchess, the Duchess!
Sentence 102: Oh!
Sentence 103: won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  
Sentence 104: Alice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
sir--'  
Sentence 105: The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
as he could go.

  
Sentence 106: Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
`Dear, dear!  
Sentence 107: How queer everything is to-day!  
Sentence 108: And yesterday
things went on just as usual.  
Sentence 109: I wonder if I've been changed in
the night?  
Sentence 110: Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
morning?  
Sentence 111: I almost think I can remember feeling a little
different.  
Sentence 112: But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
the world am I?  
Sentence 113: Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  
Sentence 114: And she began
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
them.

  
Sentence 115: `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,

Sentence 116: oh!
Sentence 117: she knows such a very little!  
Sentence 118: Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  
Sentence 119: I'll try if I know all the
things I used to know.  
Sentence 120: Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--
Sentence 121: oh dear!

Sentence 122: I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  
Sentence 123: However, the
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.

Sentence 124: London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  
Sentence 125: I must have been
changed for Mabel!  
Sentence 126: I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--

            `How doth the little crocodile
              Improve his shining tail,
            And pour the waters of the Nile
              On every golden scale!

            
Sentence 127: `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
              How neatly spread his claws,
            And welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling jaws!'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
many lessons to learn!  
Sentence 128: No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  
Sentence 129: It'll be no use their putting their
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  
Sentence 130: I shall only look
up and say "Who am I then?  
Sentence 131: Tell me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!'
Sentence 132: cried Alice, with a
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
down!  
Sentence 133: I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'

  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
white kid gloves while she was talking.  
Sentence 134: `How CAN I have done
that?'
Sentence 135: she thought.  
Sentence 136: `I must be growing small again.'  
Sentence 137: She got up
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.


Sentence 138: `That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
existence; `and now for the garden!'
Sentence 139: and she ran with all speed
back to the little door:  but, alas!
Sentence 140: the little door was shut
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  
Sentence 141: And I declare
it's too bad, that it is!'

  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
moment, splash!
Sentence 142: she was up to her chin in salt water.  
Sentence 143: He first
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  
Sentence 144: (Alice had
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
behind them a railway station.)  
Sentence 145: However, she soon made out that
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
feet high.

  
Sentence 146: `I wish I hadn't cried so much!'
Sentence 147: said Alice, as she swam about,
trying to find her way out.  
Sentence 148: `I shall be punished for it now, I
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  
Sentence 149: That WILL be a queer
thing, to be sure!  
Sentence 150: However, everything is queer to-day.'

  
Sentence 151: Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.

  
Sentence 152: `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
mouse?  
Sentence 153: Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
trying.'  
Sentence 154: So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
this pool?  
Sentence 155: I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  
Sentence 156: The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
eyes, but it said nothing.

  
Sentence 157: `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
Conqueror.'  
Sentence 158: (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  
Sentence 159: So she
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
her French lesson-book.  
Sentence 160: The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  
Sentence 161: `Oh, I beg
your pardon!'
Sentence 162: cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
poor animal's feelings.  
Sentence 163: `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

  `Not like cats!'
Sentence 164: cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
voice.  
Sentence 165: `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'

  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
angry about it.  
Sentence 166: And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.

Sentence 167: She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
one for catching mice--
Sentence 168: oh, I beg your pardon!'
Sentence 169: cried Alice again,
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
certain it must be really offended.  
Sentence 170: `We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

  `We indeed!'
Sentence 171: cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
of his tail.  
Sentence 172: `As if I would talk on such a subject!  
Sentence 173: Our family
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
the name again!'

  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation.  
Sentence 174: `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'

Sentence 175: The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!

Sentence 176: A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
brown hair!  
Sentence 177: And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!

Sentence 178: He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  
Sentence 179: For the
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.

  
Sentence 180: So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  
Sentence 181: Do come back
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
like them!'  
Sentence 182: When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
creatures.  
Sentence 183: Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
shore.



                           
Sentence 184: CHAPTER III

                  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale


  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
uncomfortable.

  
Sentence 185: The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
them, as if she had known them all her life.  
Sentence 186: Indeed, she had
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
more to be said.

  
Sentence 187: At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  
Sentence 188: I'LL
soon make you dry enough!'  
Sentence 189: They all sat down at once, in a large
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  
Sentence 190: Alice kept her eyes
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  
Sentence 191: `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?

Sentence 192: This is the driest thing I know.  
Sentence 193: Silence all round, if you please!

Sentence 194: "William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  
Sentence 195: Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'

  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

  
Sentence 196: `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!'
Sentence 197: said the Lory hastily.

  
Sentence 198: `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  
Sentence 199: `--I proceed.  
Sentence 200: "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  
Sentence 201: `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  
Sentence 202: The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  
Sentence 203: William's conduct at first was
moderate.  
Sentence 204: But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.

  
Sentence 205: `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me at all.'

  
Sentence 206: `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  
Sentence 207: `I don't know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  
Sentence 208: And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  
Sentence 209: `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  
Sentence 210: `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  
Sentence 211: `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'

Sentence 212: (And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  
Sentence 213: First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  
Sentence 214: There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  
Sentence 215: However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!'
Sentence 216: and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  
Sentence 217: This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  
Sentence 218: At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  
Sentence 219: `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  
Sentence 220: `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes!
Sentence 221: Prizes!'

  
Sentence 222: Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.

Sentence 223: There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  
Sentence 224: `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  
Sentence 225: `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  
Sentence 226: `What else have
you got in your pocket?'
Sentence 227: he went on, turning to Alice.

  
Sentence 228: `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  
Sentence 229: `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  
Sentence 230: Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  
Sentence 231: Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  
Sentence 232: The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  
Sentence 233: However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  
Sentence 234: `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  
Sentence 235: `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

  
Sentence 236: `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  
Sentence 237: And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  
Sentence 238: --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  
Sentence 239: For
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           Said the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath.
Sentence 240: "
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death.
Sentence 241: "'


  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.

Sentence 242: `What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

  
Sentence 243: `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her.  
Sentence 244: `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away.  
Sentence 245: `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  
Sentence 246: `But you're so easily
offended, you know!'

  
Sentence 247: The Mouse only growled in reply.

  
Sentence 248: `Please come back and finish your story!'
Sentence 249: Alice called after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!'
Sentence 250: but
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.

  
Sentence 251: `What a pity it wouldn't stay!'
Sentence 252: sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  
Sentence 253: Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a little snappishly.  
Sentence 254: `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  
Sentence 255: `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  
Sentence 256: `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  
Sentence 257: Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  
Sentence 258: And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  
Sentence 259: And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  
Sentence 260: Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  
Sentence 261: This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.

Sentence 262: Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one the old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!'
Sentence 263: and a Canary
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
dears!  
Sentence 264: It's high time you were all in bed!'  
Sentence 265: On various pretexts
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

  
Sentence 266: `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!'
Sentence 267: she said to herself in a
melancholy tone.  
Sentence 268: `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world!  
Sentence 269: Oh, my dear Dinah!  
Sentence 270: I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  
Sentence 271: And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.

Sentence 272: In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           
Sentence 273: CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  
Sentence 274: The Duchess!

Sentence 275: Oh my dear paws!  
Sentence 276: Oh my fur and whiskers!  
Sentence 277: She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  
Sentence 278: Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  
Sentence 279: Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  
Sentence 280: Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  
Sentence 281: Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  
Sentence 282: Quick, now!'  
Sentence 283: And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  
Sentence 284: `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.

Sentence 285: `How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  
Sentence 286: But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'

Sentence 287: As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  
Sentence 288: She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  
Sentence 289: `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  
Sentence 290: I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  
Sentence 291: And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  
Sentence 292: Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!"
Sentence 293: "Coming in a minute, nurse!  
Sentence 294: But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  
Sentence 295: Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  
Sentence 296: By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
glass.  
Sentence 297: There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'

Sentence 298: but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  
Sentence 299: `I know
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this
bottle does.  
Sentence 300: I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

  
Sentence 301: It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  
Sentence 302: She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  
Sentence 303: Alas!
Sentence 304: it was too late to wish that!  
Sentence 305: She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  
Sentence 306: Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  
Sentence 307: What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  
Sentence 308: `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  
Sentence 309: I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of life!  
Sentence 310: I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!

Sentence 311: When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  
Sentence 312: There
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  
Sentence 313: And when
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
HERE.'

  
Sentence 314: `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
am now?  
Sentence 315: That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman-
-but then--always to have lessons to learn!  
Sentence 316: Oh, I shouldn't like
THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!'
Sentence 317: she answered herself.  
Sentence 318: `How can you
learn lessons in here?  
Sentence 319: Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  
Sentence 320: And so she went on, taking first one side
Sentence 321: and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  
Sentence 322: `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  
Sentence 323: `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  
Sentence 324: Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  
Sentence 325: Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  
Sentence 326: Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  
Sentence 327: Alice heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.
Sentence 328: '

  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  
Sentence 329: She did not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

  
Sentence 330: Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat!
Sentence 331: Pat!  
Sentence 332: Where are
you?'  
Sentence 333: And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  
Sentence 334: Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  
Sentence 335: `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  
Sentence 336: (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  
Sentence 337: (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   
Sentence 338: Who ever saw one that size?  
Sentence 339: Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  
Sentence 340: but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
away!'

  
Sentence 341: There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  
Sentence 342: `Do as I tell you, you coward!'
Sentence 343: and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  
Sentence 344: This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  
Sentence 345: `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' thought Alice.  
Sentence 346: `I wonder what they'll do next!  
Sentence 347: As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  
Sentence 348: I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longer!'

  
Sentence 349: She waited for some time without hearing anything more:  at
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a
good many voice all talking together:  she made out the words:
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one;
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
high enough yet--
Sentence 350: Oh!
Sentence 351: they'll do well enough; don't be particular-
-Here, Bill!
Sentence 352: catch hold of this rope--
Sentence 353: Will the roof bear?--Mind
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  
Sentence 354: Heads below!'
Sentence 355: (a loud
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't!
Sentence 356: YOU do it!--That
Sentence 357: I won't,
then!--Bill's to go down--
Sentence 358: Here, Bill!
Sentence 359: the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh!
Sentence 360: So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
Alice to herself.  
Sentence 361: `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!

Sentence 362: I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'

  
Sentence 363: She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

  
Sentence 364: The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
Bill!'
Sentence 365: then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!'
Sentence 366: then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?

Sentence 367: What happened to you?  
Sentence 368: Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  
Sentence 369: `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

  
Sentence 370: `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
Alice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  
Sentence 371: I'll set
Dinah at you!'

  
Sentence 372: There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  
Sentence 373: If they had any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  
Sentence 374: After a minute or two, they
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.

Sentence 375: `I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
silence.

  
Sentence 376: Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head.  
Sentence 377: `If I eat one of these cakes,' she
thought, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it
can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.'

  
Sentence 378: So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find
that she began shrinking directly.  
Sentence 379: As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.

Sentence 380: The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.

Sentence 381: They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she
ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a
thick wood.

  
Sentence 382: `The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right size again;
and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden.

Sentence 383: I think that will be the best plan.'

  It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the
smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over
her head made her look up in a great hurry.

  
Sentence 384: An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round
eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.

Sentence 385: `Poor little thing!' said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried
hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the
time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it
would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.

  
Sentence 386: Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of
stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped
into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then Alice
dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run
over; and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy
made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in
its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was very
like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle
again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the
stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long
way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat
down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its
mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

  
Sentence 387: This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape;
so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out
of breath, and till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the
distance.

  
Sentence 388: `And yet what a dear little puppy it was!' said Alice, as she
leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself
with one of the leaves:  `I should have liked teaching it tricks
very much, if--if I'd only been the right size to do it!  
Sentence 389: Oh
dear!  
Sentence 390: I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again!  
Sentence 391: Let
me see--how IS it to be managed?  
Sentence 392: I suppose I ought to eat or
drink something or other; but the great question is, what?'

  
Sentence 393: The great question certainly was, what?  
Sentence 394: Alice looked all round
her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see
anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under
the circumstances.  
Sentence 395: There was a large mushroom growing near her,
about the same height as herself; and when she had looked under
it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her
that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it.

  
Sentence 396: She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of
the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large
caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded,
quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice
of her or of anything else.



                            
Sentence 397: CHAPTER V

                    Advice from a Caterpillar


  The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in
silence:  at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.

  
Sentence 398: `Who are YOU?' said the Caterpillar.

  
Sentence 399: This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation.  
Sentence 400: Alice
replied, rather shyly, `I--I hardly know, sir, just at present--
at least I know who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think
I must have been changed several times since then.'

  
Sentence 401: `What do you mean by that?' said the Caterpillar sternly.

Sentence 402: `Explain yourself!'

  
Sentence 403: `I can't explain MYSELF, I'm afraid, sir' said Alice, `because
I'm not myself, you see.'

  `I don't see,' said the Caterpillar.

  
Sentence 404: `I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly,' Alice replied very
politely, `for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and
being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.
Sentence 405: '

  `It isn't,' said the Caterpillar.

  
Sentence 406: `Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet,' said Alice; `but
when you have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you
know--and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll
feel it a little queer, won't you?'

  `Not a bit,' said the Caterpillar.

  
Sentence 407: `Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,' said Alice;
`all I know is, it would feel very queer to ME.'

  `You!'
Sentence 408: said the Caterpillar contemptuously.  
Sentence 409: `Who are YOU?'

  Which brought them back again to the beginning of the
conversation.  
Sentence 410: Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar's
making such VERY short remarks, and she drew herself up and said,
very gravely, `I think, you ought to tell me who YOU are, first.'

  `Why?' said the Caterpillar.

  
Sentence 411: Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not
think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in
a VERY unpleasant state of mind, she turned away.

  
Sentence 412: `Come back!'
Sentence 413: the Caterpillar called after her.  
Sentence 414: `I've something
important to say!'

  
Sentence 415: This sounded promising, certainly:  Alice turned and came back
again.

  
Sentence 416: `Keep your temper,' said the Caterpillar.

  
Sentence 417: `Is that all?' said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as
she could.

  
Sentence 418: `No,' said the Caterpillar.

  
Sentence 419: Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else
to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth
hearing.  
Sentence 420: For some minutes it puffed away without speaking, but
at last it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth
again, and said, `So you think you're changed, do you?'

  `I'm afraid I am, sir,' said Alice; `I can't remember things as
I used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!'

  `Can't remember WHAT things?' said the Caterpillar.

  
Sentence 421: `Well, I've tried to say "HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE," but it
all came different!'
Sentence 422: Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.

  
Sentence 423: `Repeat, "YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,"' said the Caterpillar.

  
Sentence 424: Alice folded her hands, and began:--

    `You are old, Father William,' the young man said,
      `And your hair has become very white;
    
Sentence 425: And yet you incessantly stand on your head--
      Do you think, at your age, it is right?'

    `In my youth,' Father William replied to his son,
      `I feared it might injure the brain;
    
Sentence 426: But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
      
Sentence 427: Why, I do it again and again.'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `as I mentioned before,
      And have grown most uncommonly fat;
    
Sentence 428: Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door--
      Pray, what is the reason of that?'

    `In my youth,' said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
      `I kept all my limbs very supple
    By the use of this ointment--one shilling the box--
      Allow me to sell you a couple?'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `and your jaws are too weak
      For anything tougher than suet;
    
Sentence 429: Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak--
      Pray how did you manage to do it?'

    `In my youth,' said his father, `I took to the law,
      And argued each case with my wife;
    And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
      Has lasted the rest of my life.'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `one would hardly suppose
      That your eye was as steady as ever;
    
Sentence 430: Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose--
      What made you so awfully clever?'

    `I have answered three questions, and that is enough,'
      Said his father; `don't give yourself airs!
    
Sentence 431: Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
      Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs!'


  `That is not said right,' said the Caterpillar.

  
Sentence 432: `Not QUITE right, I'm afraid,' said Alice, timidly; `some of the
words have got altered.
Sentence 433: '

  `It is wrong from beginning to end,' said the Caterpillar
decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.

  
Sentence 434: The Caterpillar was the first to speak.

  
Sentence 435: `What size do you want to be?'
Sentence 436: it asked.

  
Sentence 437: `Oh, I'm not particular as to size,' Alice hastily replied;
`only one doesn't like changing so often, you know.'

  
Sentence 438: `I DON'T know,' said the Caterpillar.

  
Sentence 439: Alice said nothing:  she had never been so much contradicted in
her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

  
Sentence 440: `Are you content now?' said the Caterpillar.

  
Sentence 441: `Well, I should like to be a LITTLE larger, sir, if you
wouldn't mind,' said Alice:  `three inches is such a wretched
height to be.'

  `It is a very good height indeed!'
Sentence 442: said the Caterpillar
angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three
inches high).

  
Sentence 443: `But I'm not used to it!' pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone.

Sentence 444: And she thought of herself, `I wish the creatures wouldn't be so
easily offended!'

  `You'll get used to it in time,' said the Caterpillar; and it
put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

  
Sentence 445: This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again.

Sentence 446: In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself.  
Sentence 447: Then it got
down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely
remarking as it went, `One side will make you grow taller, and
the other side will make you grow shorter.'

  
Sentence 448: `One side of WHAT?  
Sentence 449: The other side of WHAT?' thought Alice to
herself.

  
Sentence 450: `Of the mushroom,' said the Caterpillar, just as if she had
asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.

  
Sentence 451: Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a
minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as
it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question.

Sentence 452: However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they
would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.

  
Sentence 453: `And now which is which?'
Sentence 454: she said to herself, and nibbled a
little of the right-hand bit to try the effect:  the next moment
she felt a violent blow underneath her chin:  it had struck her
foot!

  
Sentence 455: She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but
she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking
rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit.

Sentence 456: Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was
hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and
managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.


     
Sentence 457: *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `Come, my head's free at last!'
Sentence 458: said Alice in a tone of
delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she
found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found:  all she could
see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which
seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay
far below her.

  
Sentence 459: `What CAN all that green stuff be?' said Alice.  
Sentence 460: `And where
HAVE my shoulders got to?  
Sentence 461: And oh, my poor hands, how is it I
can't see you?'  
Sentence 462: She was moving them about as she spoke, but no
result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the
distant green leaves.

  
Sentence 463: As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her
head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted
to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction,
like a serpent.  
Sentence 464: She had just succeeded in curving it down into a
graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which
she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she
had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a
hurry:  a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating
her violently with its wings.

  
Sentence 465: `Serpent!' screamed the Pigeon.

  
Sentence 466: `I'm NOT a serpent!' said Alice indignantly.  
Sentence 467: `Let me alone!'

  `Serpent, I say again!' repeated the Pigeon, but in a more
subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, `I've tried every
way, and nothing seems to suit them!'

  `I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,' said
Alice.

  
Sentence 468: `I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've
tried hedges,' the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; `but
those serpents!  
Sentence 469: There's no pleasing them!'

  
Sentence 470: Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no
use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

  
Sentence 471: `As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs,' said the
Pigeon; `but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and
day!  
Sentence 472: Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'

  `I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was
beginning to see its meaning.

  
Sentence 473: `And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued
the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, `and just as I was
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come
wriggling down from the sky!  
Sentence 474: Ugh, Serpent!'

  
Sentence 475: `But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice.  
Sentence 476: `I'm a--I'm
a--'

  `Well!  
Sentence 477: WHAT are you?' said the Pigeon.  
Sentence 478: `I can see you're
trying to invent something!'

  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

  
Sentence 479: `A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the
deepest contempt.  
Sentence 480: `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  
Sentence 481: No, no!  
Sentence 482: You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  
Sentence 483: I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  
Sentence 484: This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  
Sentence 485: I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!'
Sentence 486: said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  
Sentence 487: Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now
Sentence 488: and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  
Sentence 489: After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  
Sentence 490: It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  
Sentence 491: `Come,
there's half my plan done now!  
Sentence 492: How puzzling all these changes
are!  
Sentence 493: I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
another!  
Sentence 494: However, I've got back to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be
done, I wonder?'  
Sentence 495: As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.

Sentence 496: `Whoever lives there,' thought Alice, `it'll never do to come
upon them THIS size:  
Sentence 497: why, I should frighten them out of their
wits!'  
Sentence 498: So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did
not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself
down to nine inches high.



                           
Sentence 499: CHAPTER VI

                         Pig and Pepper


  For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman
because he was in livery:  otherwise, judging by his face only,
she would have called him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door
with his knuckles.  
Sentence 500: It was opened by another footman in livery,
with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen,
Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their
heads.  
Sentence 501: She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and
crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

  
Sentence 502: The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great
letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to
the other, saying, in a solemn tone, `For the Duchess.  
Sentence 503: An
invitation from the Queen to play croquet.'  
Sentence 504: The Frog-Footman
repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the
words a little, `From the Queen.  
Sentence 505: An invitation for the Duchess
to play croquet.'

  
Sentence 506: Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled
together.

  
Sentence 507: Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into
the wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped
out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the
ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

  
Sentence 508: Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

  
Sentence 509: `There's no sort of use in knocking,' said the Footman, `and
that for two reasons.  
Sentence 510: First, because I'm on the same side of the
door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise
inside, no one could possibly hear you.'  
Sentence 511: And certainly there was
a most extraordinary noise going on within--a constant howling
and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish
or kettle had been broken to pieces.

  
Sentence 512: `Please, then,' said Alice, `how am I to get in?'

  `There might be some sense in your knocking,' the Footman went
on without attending to her, `if we had the door between us.  
Sentence 513: For
instance, if you were INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let
you out, you know.'  
Sentence 514: He was looking up into the sky all the time
he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.  
Sentence 515: `But
perhaps he can't help it,' she said to herself; `his eyes are so
VERY nearly at the top of his head.  
Sentence 516: But at any rate he might
answer questions.--How
Sentence 517: am I to get in?' she repeated, aloud.

  
Sentence 518: `I shall sit here,' the Footman remarked, `till tomorrow--'

  At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate
came skimming out, straight at the Footman's head:  it just
grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees
behind him.

  
Sentence 519: `--or next day, maybe,' the Footman continued in the same tone,
exactly as if nothing had happened.

  
Sentence 520: `How am I to get in?'
Sentence 521: asked Alice again, in a louder tone.

  
Sentence 522: `ARE you to get in at all?' said the Footman.  
Sentence 523: `That's the
first question, you know.'

  
Sentence 524: It was, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.

Sentence 525: `It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the way all the
creatures argue.  
Sentence 526: It's enough to drive one crazy!'

  
Sentence 527: The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for
repeating his remark, with variations.  
Sentence 528: `I shall sit here,' he
said, `on and off, for days and days.'

  
Sentence 529: `But what am I to do?' said Alice.

  
Sentence 530: `Anything you like,' said the Footman, and began whistling.

  
Sentence 531: `Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately:
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  
Sentence 532: And she opened the door and went in.

  
Sentence 533: The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of
smoke from one end to the other:  the Duchess was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was
leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to
be full of soup.

  
Sentence 534: `There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!'
Sentence 535: Alice said to
herself, as well as she could for sneezing.

  
Sentence 536: There was certainly too much of it in the air.  
Sentence 537: Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  
Sentence 538: The
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  
Sentence 539: `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.

Sentence 540: Pig!'

  
Sentence 541: She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  
Sentence 542: `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that's a fact.'

  
Sentence 543: Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of
conversation.  
Sentence 544: While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  
Sentence 545: The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!'
Sentence 546: cried Alice, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror.  
Sentence 547: `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  
Sentence 548: `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her
knowledge.  
Sentence 549: `Just think of what work it would make with the day
and night!  
Sentence 550: You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its axis--'

  `Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, `chop off her head!'

  
Sentence 551: Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  
Sentence 552: I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; `I never could abide
figures!'  
Sentence 553: And with that she began nursing her child again,
singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a
violent shake at the end of every line:

        `Speak roughly to your little boy,
          And beat him when he sneezes:
        He only does it to annoy,
          Because he knows it teases.'

                    CHORUS.

    
Sentence 554: (In which the cook and the baby joined):--

                `Wow!
Sentence 555: wow!
Sentence 556: wow!'

  While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept
tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing
howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:--

        `I speak severely to my boy,
          I beat him when he sneezes;
        For he can thoroughly enjoy
          The pepper when he pleases!'

                    CHORUS.

                
Sentence 557: `Wow!
Sentence 558: wow!
Sentence 559: wow!'

  `Here!
Sentence 560: you may nurse it a bit, if you like!'
Sentence 561: the Duchess said
to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.  
Sentence 562: `I must go and
get ready to play croquet with the Queen,' and she hurried out of
the room.  
Sentence 563: The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,
but it just missed her.

  
Sentence 564: Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-
shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all
directions, `just like a star-fish,' thought Alice.  
Sentence 565: The poor
little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,
so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  
Sentence 566: As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air.  
Sentence 567: `IF I
don't take this child away with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leave it
behind?'  
Sentence 568: She said the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  
Sentence 569: `Don't
grunt,' said Alice; `that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.
Sentence 570: '

  
Sentence 571: The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  
Sentence 572: There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
all.  
Sentence 573: `But perhaps it was only sobbing,' she thought, and looked
into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

  
Sentence 574: No, there were no tears.  
Sentence 575: `If you're going to turn into a pig,
my dear,' said Alice, seriously, `I'll have nothing more to do
with you.  
Sentence 576: Mind now!'  
Sentence 577: The poor little thing sobbed again (or
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for
some while in silence.

  
Sentence 578: Alice was just beginning to think to herself, `Now, what am I
to do with this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some
alarm.  
Sentence 579: This time there could be NO mistake about it:  it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
quite absurd for her to carry it further.

  
Sentence 580: So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to
see it trot away quietly into the wood.  
Sentence 581: `If it had grown up,'
she said to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  
Sentence 582: And she began
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was just saying to herself, `if one only knew the right
way to change them--' when she was a little startled by seeing
the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.

  
Sentence 583: The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice.  
Sentence 584: It looked good-
natured, she thought:  still it had VERY long claws and a great
many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

  
Sentence 585: `Cheshire Puss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at
all know whether it would like the name:  however, it only
grinned a little wider.  
Sentence 586: `Come, it's pleased so far,' thought
Alice, and she went on.  
Sentence 587: `Would you tell me, please, which way I
ought to go from here?'

  `That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said
the Cat.

  
Sentence 588: `I don't much care where--' said Alice.

  
Sentence 589: `Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said the Cat.

  
Sentence 590: `--so long as I get SOMEWHERE,' Alice added as an explanation.

  
Sentence 591: `Oh, you're sure to do that,' said the Cat, `if you only walk
long enough.'

  
Sentence 592: Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
question.  
Sentence 593: `What sort of people live about here?'

  `In THAT direction,' the Cat said, waving its right paw round,
`lives a Hatter:  and in THAT direction,' waving the other paw,
`lives a March Hare.  
Sentence 594: Visit either you like:  they're both mad.'

  
Sentence 595: `But I don't want to go among mad people,' Alice remarked.

  
Sentence 596: `Oh, you can't help that,' said the Cat:  `we're all mad here.

Sentence 597: I'm mad.  
Sentence 598: You're mad.'

  `How do you know I'm mad?' said Alice.

  
Sentence 599: `You must be,' said the Cat, `or you wouldn't have come here.'

  
Sentence 600: Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on
`And how do you know that you're mad?'

  `To begin with,' said the Cat, `a dog's not mad.  
Sentence 601: You grant
that?'

  `I suppose so,' said Alice.

  
Sentence 602: `Well, then,' the Cat went on, `you see, a dog growls when it's
angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.  
Sentence 603: Now I growl when I'm
pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.  
Sentence 604: Therefore I'm mad.'

  `I call it purring, not growling,' said Alice.

  
Sentence 605: `Call it what you like,' said the Cat.  
Sentence 606: `Do you play croquet
with the Queen to-day?'

  `I should like it very much,' said Alice, `but I haven't been
invited yet.'

  `You'll see me there,' said the Cat, and vanished.

  
Sentence 607: Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used
to queer things happening.  
Sentence 608: While she was looking at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

  
Sentence 609: `By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' said the Cat.  
Sentence 610: `I'd
nearly forgotten to ask.'

  `It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had
come back in a natural way.

  
Sentence 611: `I thought it would,' said the Cat, and vanished again.

  
Sentence 612: Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it
did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the
direction in which the March Hare was said to live.  
Sentence 613: `I've seen
hatters before,' she said to herself; `the March Hare will be
much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be
raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in March.'  
Sentence 614: As she said
this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a
branch of a tree.

  
Sentence 615: `Did you say pig, or fig?' said the Cat.

  
Sentence 616: `I said pig,' replied Alice; `and I wish you wouldn't keep
appearing and vanishing so suddenly:  you make one quite giddy.'

  `All right,' said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite
slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the
grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

  
Sentence 617: `Well!  
Sentence 618: I've often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice;
`but a grin without a cat!  
Sentence 619: It's the most curious thing I ever
say in my life!'

  
Sentence 620: She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the
house of the March Hare:  
Sentence 621: she thought it must be the right house,
because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was
thatched with fur.  
Sentence 622: It was so large a house, that she did not
like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand
bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high:  even
then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself
`Suppose it should be raving mad after all!  
Sentence 623: I almost wish I'd
gone to see the Hatter instead!'



                           
Sentence 624: CHAPTER VII

                         A Mad Tea-Party


  There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,
and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it:  a
Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two
were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and the
talking over its head.  
Sentence 625: `Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse,'
thought Alice; `only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind.'

  
Sentence 626: The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded
together at one corner of it:  `No room!  
Sentence 627: No room!'
Sentence 628: they cried
out when they saw Alice coming.  
Sentence 629: `There's PLENTY of room!'
Sentence 630: said
Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one
end of the table.

  
Sentence 631: `Have some wine,' the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.

  
Sentence 632: Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it
but tea.  
Sentence 633: `I don't see any wine,' she remarked.

  
Sentence 634: `There isn't any,' said the March Hare.

  
Sentence 635: `Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it,' said Alice
angrily.

  
Sentence 636: `It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being
invited,' said the March Hare.

  
Sentence 637: `I didn't know it was YOUR table,' said Alice; `it's laid for a
great many more than three.'

  `Your hair wants cutting,' said the Hatter.  
Sentence 638: He had been
looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was
his first speech.

  
Sentence 639: `You should learn not to make personal remarks,' Alice said
with some severity; `it's very rude.'

  
Sentence 640: The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all
he SAID was, `Why is a raven like a writing-desk?'

  `Come, we shall have some fun now!'
Sentence 641: thought Alice.  
Sentence 642: `I'm glad
they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she
added aloud.

  
Sentence 643: `Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?'
said the March Hare.

  
Sentence 644: `Exactly so,' said Alice.

  
Sentence 645: `Then you should say what you mean,' the March Hare went on.

  
Sentence 646: `I do,' Alice hastily replied; `at least--at least I mean what
I say--that's the same thing, you know.'

  `Not the same thing a bit!' said the Hatter.  
Sentence 647: `You might just
as well say that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat
what I see"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the March Hare, `that "I
like what I get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the Dormouse, who seemed to
be talking in his sleep, `that "I breathe when I sleep" is the
same thing as "I sleep when I breathe"!'

  `It IS the same thing with you,' said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute,
while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
writing-desks, which wasn't much.

  
Sentence 648: The Hatter was the first to break the silence.  
Sentence 649: `What day of
the month is it?'
Sentence 650: he said, turning to Alice:  he had taken his
watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.

  
Sentence 651: Alice considered a little, and then said `The fourth.'

  `Two days wrong!' sighed the Hatter.  
Sentence 652: `I told you butter
wouldn't suit the works!'
Sentence 653: he added looking angrily at the March
Hare.

  
Sentence 654: `It was the BEST butter,' the March Hare meekly replied.

  
Sentence 655: `Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the Hatter
grumbled:  `you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.'

  
Sentence 656: The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily:  then
he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again:  but he
could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, `It
was the BEST butter, you know.'

  
Sentence 657: Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.

Sentence 658: `What a funny watch!'
Sentence 659: she remarked.  
Sentence 660: `It tells the day of the
month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!'

  `Why should it?' muttered the Hatter.  
Sentence 661: `Does YOUR watch tell
you what year it is?'

  `Of course not,' Alice replied very readily:  
Sentence 662: `but that's
because it stays the same year for such a long time together.
Sentence 663: '

  `Which is just the case with MINE,' said the Hatter.

  
Sentence 664: Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.  
Sentence 665: The Hatter's remark seemed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.

Sentence 666: `I don't quite understand you,' she said, as politely as she
could.

  
Sentence 667: `The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured
a little hot tea upon its nose.

  
Sentence 668: The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; just what I was going to
remark myself.'

  `Have you guessed the riddle yet?'
Sentence 669: the Hatter said, turning to
Alice again.

  
Sentence 670: `No, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `what's the answer?'

  `I haven't the slightest idea,' said the Hatter.

  
Sentence 671: `Nor I,' said the March Hare.

  
Sentence 672: Alice sighed wearily.  
Sentence 673: `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  
Sentence 674: `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the Hatter, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  
Sentence 675: It's HIM.'

  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

  
Sentence 676: `Of course you don't!'
Sentence 677: the Hatter said, tossing his head
contemptuously.  
Sentence 678: `I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'

  `Perhaps not,' Alice cautiously replied:  
Sentence 679: `but I know I have to
beat time when I learn music.
Sentence 680: '

  `Ah! that accounts for it,' said the Hatter.  
Sentence 681: `He won't stand
beating.  
Sentence 682: Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
almost anything you liked with the clock.  
Sentence 683: For instance, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:
you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling!  
Sentence 684: Half-past one, time for dinner!'

  (`I only wish it was,' the March Hare said to itself in a
whisper.)

  
Sentence 685: `That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully:
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

  `Not at first, perhaps,' said the Hatter:  `but you could keep
it to half-past one as long as you liked.'

  `Is that the way YOU manage?'
Sentence 686: Alice asked.

  
Sentence 687: The Hatter shook his head mournfully.  
Sentence 688: `Not I!'
Sentence 689: he replied.

Sentence 690: `We quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you know--'
(pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) `--it was at the
great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

            "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
            
Sentence 691: How I wonder what you're at!"

You know the song, perhaps?'

  `I've heard something like it,' said Alice.

  
Sentence 692: `It goes on, you know,' the Hatter continued, `in this way:--

            "Up above the world you fly,
            Like a tea-tray in the sky.
                    
Sentence 693: Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that
they had to pinch it to make it stop.

  
Sentence 694: `Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' said the Hatter,
`when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the
time!  
Sentence 695: Off with his head!
Sentence 696: "'

  `How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Alice.

  
Sentence 697: `And ever since that,' the Hatter went on in a mournful tone,
`he won't do a thing I ask!  
Sentence 698: It's always six o'clock now.'

  
Sentence 699: A bright idea came into Alice's head.  
Sentence 700: `Is that the reason so
many tea-things are put out here?'
Sentence 701: she asked.

  
Sentence 702: `Yes, that's it,' said the Hatter with a sigh:  `it's always
tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.'

  
Sentence 703: `Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' said Alice.

  
Sentence 704: `Exactly so,' said the Hatter:  `as the things get used up.'

  
Sentence 705: `But what happens when you come to the beginning again?'
Sentence 706: Alice
ventured to ask.

  
Sentence 707: `Suppose we change the subject,' the March Hare interrupted,
yawning.  
Sentence 708: `I'm getting tired of this.  
Sentence 709: I vote the young lady
tells us a story.'

  
Sentence 710: `I'm afraid I don't know one,' said Alice, rather alarmed at
the proposal.

  
Sentence 711: `Then the Dormouse shall!'
Sentence 712: they both cried.  
Sentence 713: `Wake up,
Dormouse!'  
Sentence 714: And they pinched it on both sides at once.

  
Sentence 715: The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes.  
Sentence 716: `I wasn't asleep,' he
said in a hoarse, feeble voice:  `I heard every word you fellows
were saying.'

  `Tell us a story!' said the March Hare.

  
Sentence 717: `Yes, please do!' pleaded Alice.

  
Sentence 718: `And be quick about it,' added the Hatter, `or you'll be asleep
again before it's done.'

  
Sentence 719: `Once upon a time there were three little sisters,' the
Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  
Sentence 720: `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  
Sentence 721: `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  
Sentence 722: `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  
Sentence 723: `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  
Sentence 724: `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.
Sentence 725: '

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  
Sentence 726: `Who's making personal remarks now?'
Sentence 727: the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  
Sentence 728: Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  
Sentence 729: `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  
Sentence 730: Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!'
Sentence 731: and the Dormouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!'
Sentence 732: Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  
Sentence 733: I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  
Sentence 734: However, he
consented to go on.  
Sentence 735: `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  
Sentence 736: `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this
time.

  
Sentence 737: `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

  
Sentence 738: He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  
Sentence 739: The Hatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset
the milk-jug into his plate.

  
Sentence 740: Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  
Sentence 741: Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  
Sentence 742: `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  
Sentence 743: This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  
Sentence 744: `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  
Sentence 745: `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  
Sentence 746: Alice was silent.

  
Sentence 747: The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  
Sentence 748: This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  
Sentence 749: she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  
Sentence 750: `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  
Sentence 751: `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  
Sentence 752: `That's very curious!'
Sentence 753: she thought.

Sentence 754: `But everything's curious today.  
Sentence 755: I think I may as well go in at
once.'  
Sentence 756: And in she went.

  
Sentence 757: Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  
Sentence 758: `Now, I'll manage better this time,' she
said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and
unlocking the door that led into the garden.  
Sentence 759: Then she went to
work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her
pocked) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down the
little passage:  and THEN--she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains.



                          
Sentence 760: CHAPTER VIII

                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground


  A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at
it, busily painting them red.  
Sentence 761: Alice thought this a very curious
thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up
to them she heard one of them say, `Look out now, Five!  
Sentence 762: Don't go
splashing paint over me like that!'

  `I couldn't help it,' said Five, in a sulky tone; `Seven jogged
my elbow.'

  On which Seven looked up and said, `That's right, Five!  
Sentence 763: Always
lay the blame on others!'

  `YOU'D better not talk!' said Five.  
Sentence 764: `I heard the Queen say only
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!'

  `What for?' said the one who had spoken first.

  
Sentence 765: `That's none of YOUR business, Two!' said Seven.

  
Sentence 766: `Yes, it IS his business!'
Sentence 767: said Five, `and I'll tell him--it
was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'

  
Sentence 768: Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun `Well, of all
the unjust things--' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as
she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly:  the
others looked round also, and all of them bowed low.

  
Sentence 769: `Would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, `why you are
painting those roses?'

  
Sentence 770: Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two.  
Sentence 771: Two began in a
low voice, `Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to
have been a RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake;
and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads
cut off, you know.  
Sentence 772: So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore
she comes, to--'  
Sentence 773: At this moment Five, who had been anxiously
looking across the garden, called out `The Queen!  
Sentence 774: The Queen!'
and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon
their faces.  
Sentence 775: There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice
looked round, eager to see the Queen.

  
Sentence 776: First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped
like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and
feet at the corners:  next the ten courtiers; these were
ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the
soldiers did.  
Sentence 777: After these came the royal children; there were
ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand
in hand, in couples:  they were all ornamented with hearts.  
Sentence 778: Next
came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice
recognised the White Rabbit:  it was talking in a hurried nervous
manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without
noticing her.  
Sentence 779: Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the
King's crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this
grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.

  
Sentence 780: Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on
her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember
every having heard of such a rule at processions; `and besides,
what would be the use of a procession,' thought she, `if people
had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn't see
it?'  
Sentence 781: So she stood still where she was, and waited.

  
Sentence 782: When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped
and looked at her, and the Queen said severely `Who is this?'

Sentence 783: She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in
reply.

  
Sentence 784: `Idiot!' said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and,
turning to Alice, she went on, `What's your name, child?'

  `My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,' said Alice very
politely; but she added, to herself, `Why, they're only a pack of
cards, after all.  
Sentence 785: I needn't be afraid of them!'

  
Sentence 786: `And who are THESE?' said the Queen, pointing to the three
gardeners who were lying round the rosetree; for, you see, as
they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs
was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether
they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her
own children.

  
Sentence 787: `How should I know?' said Alice, surprised at her own courage.

Sentence 788: `It's no business of MINE.'

  
Sentence 789: The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her
for a moment like a wild beast, screamed `Off with her head!

Sentence 790: Off--'

  `Nonsense!' said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the
Queen was silent.

  
Sentence 791: The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said
`Consider, my dear:  she is only a child!'

  
Sentence 792: The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave
`Turn them over!'

  
Sentence 793: The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.

  
Sentence 794: `Get up!'
Sentence 795: said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the
three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the
King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.

  
Sentence 796: `Leave off that!'
Sentence 797: screamed the Queen.  
Sentence 798: `You make me giddy.'

Sentence 799: And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, `What HAVE you
been doing here?'

  `May it please your Majesty,' said Two, in a very humble tone,
going down on one knee as he spoke, `we were trying--'

  `I see!'
Sentence 800: said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the
roses.  
Sentence 801: `Off with their heads!'
Sentence 802: and the procession moved on,
three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate
gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.

  
Sentence 803: `You shan't be beheaded!'
Sentence 804: said Alice, and she put them into a
large flower-pot that stood near.  
Sentence 805: The three soldiers wandered
about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly
marched off after the others.

  
Sentence 806: `Are their heads off?' shouted the Queen.

  
Sentence 807: `Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!'
Sentence 808: the soldiers
shouted in reply.

  
Sentence 809: `That's right!'
Sentence 810: shouted the Queen.  
Sentence 811: `Can you play croquet?'

  
Sentence 812: The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question
was evidently meant for her.

  
Sentence 813: `Yes!' shouted Alice.

  `Come on, then!' roared the Queen, and Alice joined the
procession, wondering very much what would happen next.

  
Sentence 814: `It's--it's a very fine day!' said a timid voice at her side.

Sentence 815: She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously
into her face.

  
Sentence 816: `Very,' said Alice:  `--where's the Duchess?
Sentence 817: '

  `Hush!  Hush!' said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone.  
Sentence 818: He
looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised
himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and
whispered `She's under sentence of execution.'

  
Sentence 819: `What for?' said Alice.

  
Sentence 820: `Did you say "What a pity!"?'
Sentence 821: the Rabbit asked.

  
Sentence 822: `No, I didn't,' said Alice:  `I don't think it's at all a pity.

Sentence 823: I said "What for?"'

  `She boxed the Queen's ears--' the Rabbit began.  
Sentence 824: Alice gave a
little scream of laughter.  
Sentence 825: `Oh, hush!'
Sentence 826: the Rabbit whispered in a
frightened tone.  
Sentence 827: `The Queen will hear you!  
Sentence 828: You see, she came
rather late, and the Queen said--'

  `Get to your places!'
Sentence 829: shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder,
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up
against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or
two, and the game began.  
Sentence 830: Alice thought she had never seen such a
curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and
furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to
stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

  
Sentence 831: The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her
flamingo:  
Sentence 832: she succeeded in getting its body tucked away,
comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down,
but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it
WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a
puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing:
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again,
it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in the act of crawling away:  besides all this,
there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she
wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers
were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the
ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very
difficult game indeed.

  
Sentence 833: The players all played at once without waiting for turns,
quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in
a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went
stamping about, and shouting `Off with his head!' or `Off with
her head!'
Sentence 834: about once in a minute.

  
Sentence 835: Alice began to feel very uneasy:  to be sure, she had not as
yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might
happen any minute, `and then,' thought she, `what would become of
me?  
Sentence 836: They're dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great
wonder is, that there's any one left alive!'

  
Sentence 837: She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering
whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a
curious appearance in the air:  it puzzled her very much at
first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to
be a grin, and she said to herself `It's the Cheshire Cat:  now I
shall have somebody to talk to.'

  `How are you getting on?' said the Cat, as soon as there was
mouth enough for it to speak with.

  
Sentence 838: Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded.  
Sentence 839: `It's no
use speaking to it,' she thought, `till its ears have come, or at
least one of them.'  
Sentence 840: In another minute the whole head appeared,
and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the
game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her.  
Sentence 841: The
Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and
no more of it appeared.

  
Sentence 842: `I don't think they play at all fairly,' Alice began, in rather
a complaining tone, `and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't
hear oneself speak--and they don't seem to have any rules in
particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them--and
you've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive;
for instance, there's the arch I've got to go through next
walking about at the other end of the ground--and I should have
croqueted the Queen's hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it
saw mine coming!'

  `How do you like the Queen?' said the Cat in a low voice.

  
Sentence 843: `Not at all,' said Alice:  `she's so extremely--'  
Sentence 844: Just then
she noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening:  
Sentence 845: so
she went on, `--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while
finishing the game.'

  
Sentence 846: The Queen smiled and passed on.

  
Sentence 847: `Who ARE you talking to?' said the King, going up to Alice, and
looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity.

  
Sentence 848: `It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice:  `allow me
to introduce it.'

  `I don't like the look of it at all,' said the King:  `however,
it may kiss my hand if it likes.
Sentence 849: '

  `I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.

  `Don't be impertinent,' said the King, `and don't look at me
like that!'  
Sentence 850: He got behind Alice as he spoke.

  
Sentence 851: `A cat may look at a king,' said Alice.  
Sentence 852: `I've read that in
some book, but I don't remember where.'

  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  
Sentence 853: I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  
Sentence 854: The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  
Sentence 855: `Off with his head!'
Sentence 856: she said, without even looking
round.

  
Sentence 857: `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  
Sentence 858: Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.  
Sentence 859: She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  
Sentence 860: So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  
Sentence 861: The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  
Sentence 862: By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:

Sentence 863: `but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  
Sentence 864: So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  
Sentence 865: When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  
Sentence 866: The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  
Sentence 867: The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  
Sentence 868: The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  
Sentence 869: The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.

Sentence 870: (It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  
Sentence 871: Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  
Sentence 872: And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   
Sentence 873: The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Dutchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and
down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                           
Sentence 874: CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Turtle's Story


  `You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

  
Sentence 875: Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  
Sentence 876: `When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very
hopeful tone though), `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
ALL.  
Sentence 877: Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  
Sentence 878: I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you
know--'

  She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.

Sentence 879: `You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  
Sentence 880: I can't tell you just now what the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

  
Sentence 881: `Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess.  
Sentence 882: `Everything's got a
moral, if only you can find it.'  
Sentence 883: And she squeezed herself up
closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

  
Sentence 884: Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  
Sentence 885: However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  
Sentence 886: `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.

  
Sentence 887: `'Tis so,' said the Duchess:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!
Sentence 888: "'

  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  
Sentence 889: It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves.
Sentence 890: "'

  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!'
Sentence 891: Alice thought to
herself.

  
Sentence 892: `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  
Sentence 893: Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  
Sentence 894: `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  
Sentence 895: And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together.
Sentence 896: "'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  
Sentence 897: `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you
have of putting things!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

  
Sentence 898: `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  
Sentence 899: And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours.
Sentence 900: "'

  `Oh, I know!'
Sentence 901: exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  
Sentence 902: It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise.
Sentence 903: "'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  
Sentence 904: but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.

  
Sentence 905: `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  
Sentence 906: `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  
Sentence 907: `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  
Sentence 908: `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  
Sentence 909: But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  
Sentence 910: `Thinking again?'
Sentence 911: the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  
Sentence 912: `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  
Sentence 913: `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  
Sentence 914: Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  
Sentence 915: `A fine day, your Majesty!'
Sentence 916: the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  
Sentence 917: `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  
Sentence 918: Take your choice!'

  
Sentence 919: The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  
Sentence 920: `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  
Sentence 921: The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  
Sentence 922: All the time they were playing the Queen never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!'
Sentence 923: or `Off with her head!'  
Sentence 924: Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the
King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.

  
Sentence 925: Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to
Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' said Alice.  
Sentence 926: `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

  
Sentence 927: `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

  
Sentence 928: `Come on, then,' said the Queen, `and he shall tell you his
history,'

  As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low
voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  
Sentence 929: `Come,
THAT'S a good thing!'
Sentence 930: she said to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

  
Sentence 931: They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  
Sentence 932: (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy thing!'
Sentence 933: said the Queen, `and take this young lady to
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history.  
Sentence 934: I must go back and
see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,
leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.  
Sentence 935: Alice did not quite like
the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Queen:  
Sentence 936: so she waited.

  
Sentence 937: The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the
Queen till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  
Sentence 938: `What fun!'
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.

  
Sentence 939: `What IS the fun?' said Alice.

  
Sentence 940: `Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon.  
Sentence 941: `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never executes nobody, you know.  
Sentence 942: Come on!'

  `Everybody says "come on!"
Sentence 943: here,' thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!'

  
Sentence 944: They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.  
Sentence 945: She pitied him deeply.  
Sentence 946: `What is his sorrow?'
Sentence 947: she
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you know.  
Sentence 948: Come on!'

  
Sentence 949: So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  
Sentence 950: `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  
Sentence 951: So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  
Sentence 952: Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  
Sentence 953: But she waited patiently.

  
Sentence 954: `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  
Sentence 955: These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  
Sentence 956: Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  
Sentence 957: `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  
Sentence 958: The master was an old Turtle--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?'
Sentence 959: Alice asked.

  
Sentence 960: `We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock
Turtle angrily:  `really you are very dull!'

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  
Sentence 961: At
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!

Sentence 962: Don't be all day about it!'
Sentence 963: and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn't!'
Sentence 964: interrupted Alice.

  
Sentence 965: `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

  
Sentence 966: `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak
again.  
Sentence 967: The Mock Turtle went on.

  
Sentence 968: `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?'
Sentence 969: asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

  
Sentence 970: `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.
Sentence 971: '

  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

  
Sentence 972: `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

  
Sentence 973: `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief.  
Sentence 974: `Now at OURS they had at the
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; `living at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.'
Sentence 975: said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh.  
Sentence 976: `I only took the regular course.'

  
Sentence 977: `What was that?' inquired Alice.

  
Sentence 978: `Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock
Turtle replied; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say.  
Sentence 979: `What
is it?'

  The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  
Sentence 980: `What!  Never
heard of uglifying!'
Sentence 981: it exclaimed.  
Sentence 982: `You know what to beautify
is, I suppose?'

  `Yes,' said Alice doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anything--
prettier.'

  
Sentence 983: `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't know what to
uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'

  
Sentence 984: Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about
it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said `What else had you
to learn?'

  `Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting
off the subjects on his flappers, `--Mystery, ancient and modern,
with Seaography:  then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old
conger-eel, that used to come once a week:  
Sentence 985: HE taught us
Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.'

  
Sentence 986: `What was THAT like?' said Alice.

  
Sentence 987: `Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle said:  `I'm
too stiff.  
Sentence 988: And the Gryphon never learnt it.'

  `Hadn't time,' said the Gryphon:  `I went to the Classics
master, though.  
Sentence 989: He was an old crab, HE was.'

  `I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh:  `he
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'

  
Sentence 990: `So he did, so he did,' said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;
and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.

  
Sentence 991: `And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a
hurry to change the subject.

  
Sentence 992: `Ten hours the first day,' said the Mock Turtle: `nine the
next, and so on.'

  `
Sentence 993: What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.

  
Sentence 994: `That's the reason they're called lessons,' the Gryphon
remarked:  `because they lessen from day to day.'

  
Sentence 995: This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a
little before she made her next remark.  
Sentence 996: `Then the eleventh day
must have been a holiday?'

  `Of course it was,' said the Mock Turtle.

  
Sentence 997: `And how did you manage on the twelfth?'
Sentence 998: Alice went on eagerly.

  
Sentence 999: `That's enough about lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in a
very decided tone:  `tell her something about the games now.'



                            CHAPTER X

                      The Lobster Quadrille


  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper
across his eyes.  
Sentence 1000: He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for
a minute or two sobs choked his voice.  
Sentence 1001: `Same as if he had a bone
in his throat,' said the Gryphon:  and it set to work shaking him
and punching him in the back.  
Sentence 1002: At last the Mock Turtle recovered
his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on
again:--

  `You may not have lived much under the sea--' (`I haven't,'
said Alice)--`and
Sentence 1003: perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'
(Alice began to say `I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily,
and said `No, never')
Sentence 1004: `--so you can have no idea what a delightful
thing a Lobster Quadrille is!'

  `No, indeed,' said Alice.  
Sentence 1005: `What sort of a dance is it?'

  `Why,' said the Gryphon, `you first form into a line along the
sea-shore--'

  `Two lines!'
Sentence 1006: cried the Mock Turtle.  
Sentence 1007: `Seals, turtles, salmon,
and so on; then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of
the way--'

  `THAT generally takes some time,' interrupted the Gryphon.

  
Sentence 1008: `--you advance twice--'

  `Each with a lobster as a partner!'
Sentence 1009: cried the Gryphon.

  
Sentence 1010: `Of course,' the Mock Turtle said:  `advance twice, set to
partners--'

  `--change lobsters, and retire in same order,' continued the
Gryphon.

  
Sentence 1011: `Then, you know,' the Mock Turtle went on, `you throw the--'

  `The lobsters!'
Sentence 1012: shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.

  
Sentence 1013: `--as far out to sea as you can--'

  `Swim after them!'
Sentence 1014: screamed the Gryphon.

  
Sentence 1015: `Turn a somersault in the sea!'
Sentence 1016: cried the Mock Turtle,
capering wildly about.

  
Sentence 1017: `Back to land again, and that's all the first figure,' said the
Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures,
who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat
down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.

  
Sentence 1018: `It must be a very pretty dance,' said Alice timidly.

  
Sentence 1019: `Would you like to see a little of it?' said the Mock Turtle.

  
Sentence 1020: `Very much indeed,' said Alice.

  `Come, let's try the first figure!'
Sentence 1021: said the Mock Turtle to the
Gryphon.  
Sentence 1022: `We can do without lobsters, you know.  
Sentence 1023: Which shall
sing?'

  `Oh, YOU sing,' said the Gryphon.  
Sentence 1024: `I've forgotten the words.'

  
Sentence 1025: So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now
and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and
waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle
sang this, very slowly and sadly:--


`"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.

Sentence 1026: "There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my
 tail.

Sentence 1027: See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!

Sentence 1028: They are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the
dance?


Sentence 1029: Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
dance?

Sentence 1030: Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
dance?


"You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to
                                                      sea!"

Sentence 1031: But the snail replied "Too far, too far!" and gave a look
                                                       askance--
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the
   dance.
    
Sentence 1032: Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join
        the dance.
    
Sentence 1033: Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join
        the dance.


Sentence 1034: `"What matters it how far we go?"
Sentence 1035: his scaly friend replied.

Sentence 1036: "There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.

Sentence 1037: The further off from England the nearer is to France--
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.

    
Sentence 1038: Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
         dance?
    
Sentence 1039: Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
         dance?"'



  `Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' said
Alice, feeling very glad that it was over at last:  `and I do so
like that curious song about the whiting!'

  `Oh, as to the whiting,' said the Mock Turtle, `they--you've
seen them, of course?'

  `Yes,' said Alice, `I've often seen them at dinn--' she
checked herself hastily.

  
Sentence 1040: `I don't know where Dinn may be,' said the Mock Turtle, `but
if you've seen them so often, of course you know what they're
like.'

  `I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully.  
Sentence 1041: `They have their
tails in their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.'

  `You're wrong about the crumbs,' said the Mock Turtle:
`crumbs would all wash off in the sea.  
Sentence 1042: But they HAVE their tails
in their mouths; and the reason is--' here the Mock Turtle
yawned and shut his eyes.--`Tell her about the reason and all
that,' he said to the Gryphon.

  
Sentence 1043: `The reason is,' said the Gryphon, `that they WOULD go with
the lobsters to the dance.  
Sentence 1044: So they got thrown out to sea.  
Sentence 1045: So
they had to fall a long way.  
Sentence 1046: So they got their tails fast in
their mouths.  
Sentence 1047: So they couldn't get them out again.  
Sentence 1048: That's all.'

  `Thank you,' said Alice, `it's very interesting.  
Sentence 1049: I never knew
so much about a whiting before.'

  `I can tell you more than that, if you like,' said the
Gryphon.  
Sentence 1050: `Do you know why it's called a whiting?'

  `I never thought about it,' said Alice.  
Sentence 1051: `Why?'

  `IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES.'
Sentence 1052: the Gryphon replied very
solemnly.

  
Sentence 1053: Alice was thoroughly puzzled.  
Sentence 1054: `Does the boots and shoes!'
Sentence 1055: she
repeated in a wondering tone.

  
Sentence 1056: `Why, what are YOUR shoes done with?' said the Gryphon.  
Sentence 1057: `I
mean, what makes them so shiny?'

  Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she
gave her answer.  
Sentence 1058: `They're done with blacking, I believe.'

  `Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep
voice, `are done with a whiting.  
Sentence 1059: Now you know.'

  
Sentence 1060: `And what are they made of?'
Sentence 1061: Alice asked in a tone of great
curiosity.

  
Sentence 1062: `Soles and eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rather
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'

  
Sentence 1063: `If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, `I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep
back, please:  we don't want YOU with us!"'

  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Turtle
said:  `no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it really?' said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

  
Sentence 1064: `Of course not,' said the Mock Turtle:  `why, if a fish came
to ME, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With
what porpoise?"'

  `Don't you mean "purpose"?' said Alice.

  
Sentence 1065: `I mean what I say,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended
tone.  
Sentence 1066: And the Gryphon added `Come, let's hear some of YOUR
adventures.'

  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  
Sentence 1067: `No, no!  
Sentence 1068: The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  
Sentence 1069: So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  
Sentence 1070: She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  
Sentence 1071: Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  
Sentence 1072: `It all came different!'
Sentence 1073: the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  
Sentence 1074: `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  
Sentence 1075: Tell her to begin.'  
Sentence 1076: He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  
Sentence 1077: `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  
Sentence 1078: `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!'
Sentence 1079: thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'

Sentence 1080: However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair.
Sentence 1081: "
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              
Sentence 1082: [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
    
Sentence 1083: But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the Gryphon.

  
Sentence 1084: `Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  
Sentence 1085: Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way
again.

  
Sentence 1086: `I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock Turtle.

  
Sentence 1087: `She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily.  
Sentence 1088: `Go on with
the next verse.'

  
Sentence 1089: `But about his toes?'
Sentence 1090: the Mock Turtle persisted.  
Sentence 1091: `How COULD
he turn them out with his nose, you know?'

  `It's the first position in dancing.'
Sentence 1092: Alice said; but was
dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the
subject.

  
Sentence 1093: `Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently:
`it begins "I passed by his garden.
Sentence 1094: "'

  Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would
all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--

    `I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
    How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie--'

        [later editions continued as follows
    The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
    While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
    
Sentence 1095: When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
    Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
    While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
    And concluded the banquet--]

  `What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Turtle
interrupted, `if you don't explain it as you go on?  
Sentence 1096: It's by far
the most confusing thing I ever heard!'

  `Yes, I think you'd better leave off,' said the Gryphon:  and
Alice was only too glad to do so.

  
Sentence 1097: `Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?'
Sentence 1098: the
Gryphon went on.  
Sentence 1099: `Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you
a song?'

  `Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,'
Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather
offended tone, `Hm!
Sentence 1100: No accounting for tastes!  
Sentence 1101: Sing her "Turtle
Soup," will you, old fellow?'

  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes
choked with sobs, to sing this:--


    `Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
    
Sentence 1102: Waiting in a hot tureen!
    
Sentence 1103: Who for such dainties would not stoop?
    
Sentence 1104: Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    
Sentence 1105: Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    
Sentence 1106: Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

    `Beautiful Soup!  
Sentence 1107: Who cares for fish,
    Game, or any other dish?
    
Sentence 1108: Who would not give all else for two p
    ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    
Sentence 1109: Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!'

  `Chorus again!' cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had
just begun to repeat it, when a cry of `The trial's beginning!'
was heard in the distance.

  
Sentence 1110: `Come on!'
Sentence 1111: cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand,
it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.

  
Sentence 1112: `What trial is it?'
Sentence 1113: Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon
only answered `Come on!' and ran the faster, while more and more
faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the
melancholy words:--

    `Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!'



                           CHAPTER XI

                      Who Stole the Tarts?


  
Sentence 1114: The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when
they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts
of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards:
the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on
each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rabbit,
with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the
other.  
Sentence 1115: In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large
dish of tarts upon it:  they looked so good, that it made Alice
quite hungry to look at them--`I wish they'd get the trial done,'
she thought, `and hand round the refreshments!'  
Sentence 1116: But there seemed
to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about
her, to pass away the time.

  
Sentence 1117: Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had
read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that
she knew the name of nearly everything there.  
Sentence 1118: `That's the
judge,' she said to herself, `because of his great wig.'

  
Sentence 1119: The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown
over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he
did it,) he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly
not becoming.

  
Sentence 1120: `And that's the jury-box,' thought Alice, `and those twelve
creatures,' (she was obliged to say `creatures,' you see, because
some of them were animals, and some were birds,) `I suppose they
are the jurors.'  
Sentence 1121: She said this last word two or three times over
to herself, being rather proud of it:  for she thought, and
rightly too, that very few little girls of her age knew the
meaning of it at all.  
Sentence 1122: However, `jury-men' would have done just
as well.

  
Sentence 1123: The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates.

Sentence 1124: `What are they doing?'  
Sentence 1125: Alice whispered to the Gryphon.  
Sentence 1126: `They
can't have anything to put down yet, before the trial's begun.'

  `They're putting down their names,' the Gryphon whispered in
reply, `for fear they should forget them before the end of the
trial.'

  `Stupid things!'
Sentence 1127: Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but
she stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, `Silence in
the court!'
Sentence 1128: and the King put on his spectacles and looked
anxiously round, to make out who was talking.

  
Sentence 1129: Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their
shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down `stupid things!'
on their slates, and she could even make out that one of them
didn't know how to spell `stupid,' and that he had to ask his
neighbour to tell him.  
Sentence 1130: `A nice muddle their slates'll be in
before the trial's over!'
Sentence 1131: thought Alice.

  
Sentence 1132: One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked.  
Sentence 1133: This of course,
Alice could not stand, and she went round the court and got
behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it
away.  
Sentence 1134: She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was
Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of
it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write
with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very
little use, as it left no mark on the slate.

  
Sentence 1135: `Herald, read the accusation!' said the King.

  
Sentence 1136: On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and
then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:--

    `The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
          All on a summer day:
      
Sentence 1137: The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
          And took them quite away!'

  `Consider your verdict,' the King said to the jury.

  
Sentence 1138: `Not yet, not yet!'
Sentence 1139: the Rabbit hastily interrupted.  
Sentence 1140: `There's
a great deal to come before that!'

  `Call the first witness,' said the King; and the White Rabbit
blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, `First
witness!'

  
Sentence 1141: The first witness was the Hatter.  
Sentence 1142: He came in with a teacup in
one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.  
Sentence 1143: `I beg
pardon, your Majesty,' he began, `for bringing these in:  
Sentence 1144: but I
hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.'

  `You ought to have finished,' said the King.  
Sentence 1145: `When did you
begin?'

  
Sentence 1146: The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into
the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse.  
Sentence 1147: `Fourteenth of March, I
think it was,' he said.

  
Sentence 1148: `Fifteenth,' said the March Hare.

  
Sentence 1149: `Sixteenth,' added the Dormouse.

  
Sentence 1150: `Write that down,' the King said to the jury, and the jury
eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then
added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.

  
Sentence 1151: `Take off your hat,' the King said to the Hatter.

  
Sentence 1152: `It isn't mine,' said the Hatter.

  
Sentence 1153: `Stolen!'
Sentence 1154: the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who
instantly made a memorandum of the fact.

  
Sentence 1155: `I keep them to sell,' the Hatter added as an explanation;
`I've none of my own.  
Sentence 1156: I'm a hatter.'

  
Sentence 1157: Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the
Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.

  
Sentence 1158: `Give your evidence,' said the King; `and don't be nervous, or
I'll have you executed on the spot.'

  
Sentence 1159: This did not seem to encourage the witness at all:  he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the
Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

  
Sentence 1160: Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which
puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was:  she was
beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she
would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she
decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for
her.

  
Sentence 1161: `I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' said the Dormouse, who was
sitting next to her.  
Sentence 1162: `I can hardly breathe.'

  `I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly:  `I'm growing.'

  `You've no right to grow here,' said the Dormouse.

  
Sentence 1163: `Don't talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly:  `you know
you're growing too.'

  
Sentence 1164: `Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said the Dormouse:
`not in that ridiculous fashion.'  
Sentence 1165: And he got up very sulkily
and crossed over to the other side of the court.

  
Sentence 1166: All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the
Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to
one of the officers of the court, `Bring me the list of the
singers in the last concert!' on which the wretched Hatter
trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

  
Sentence 1167: `Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, `or I'll have
you executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Hatter began, in a
trembling voice, `--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week
or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and
the twinkling of the tea--'

  `The twinkling of the what?' said the King.

  
Sentence 1168: `It began with the tea,' the Hatter replied.

  
Sentence 1169: `Of course twinkling begins with a T!' said the King sharply.

Sentence 1170: `Do you take me for a dunce?  
Sentence 1171: Go on!'

  `I'm a poor man,' the Hatter went on, `and most things
twinkled after that--only the March Hare said--'

  `I didn't!'
Sentence 1172: the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

  
Sentence 1173: `You did!' said the Hatter.

  
Sentence 1174: `I deny it!' said the March Hare.

  
Sentence 1175: `He denies it,' said the King:  `leave out that part.'

  
Sentence 1176: `Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said--' the Hatter went on,
looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too:  but the
Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.

  
Sentence 1177: `After that,' continued the Hatter, `I cut some more bread-
and-butter--'

  `But what did the Dormouse say?' one of the jury asked.

  
Sentence 1178: `That I can't remember,' said the Hatter.

  
Sentence 1179: `You MUST remember,' remarked the King, `or I'll have you
executed.'

  
Sentence 1180: The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter,
and went down on one knee.  
Sentence 1181: `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he
began.

  
Sentence 1182: `You're a very poor speaker,' said the King.

  
Sentence 1183: Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately
suppressed by the officers of the court.  
Sentence 1184: (As that is rather a
hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done.  
Sentence 1185: They had
a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings:
into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat
upon it.)

  `I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Alice.  
Sentence 1186: `I've so often
read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, "There was some
attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the
officers of the court," and I never understood what it meant
till now.'

  
Sentence 1187: `If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,'
continued the King.

  
Sentence 1188: `I can't go no lower,' said the Hatter:  `I'm on the floor, as
it is.'

  `Then you may SIT down,' the King replied.

  
Sentence 1189: Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.

  
Sentence 1190: `Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!' thought Alice.  
Sentence 1191: `Now we
shall get on better.'

  `I'd rather finish my tea,' said the Hatter, with an anxious
look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.

  
Sentence 1192: `You may go,' said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the
court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.

  
Sentence 1193: `--and just take his head off outside,' the Queen added to one
of the officers:  but the Hatter was out of sight before the
officer could get to the door.

  
Sentence 1194: `Call the next witness!'
Sentence 1195: said the King.

  
Sentence 1196: The next witness was the Duchess's cook.  
Sentence 1197: She carried the
pepper-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before
she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began
sneezing all at once.

  
Sentence 1198: `Give your evidence,' said the King.

  
Sentence 1199: `Shan't,' said the cook.

  
Sentence 1200: The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a
low voice, `Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness.'

  `Well, if I must, I must,' the King said, with a melancholy
air, and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till
his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, `What
are tarts made of?'

  `Pepper, mostly,' said the cook.

  
Sentence 1201: `Treacle,' said a sleepy voice behind her.

  
Sentence 1202: `Collar that Dormouse,' the Queen shrieked out.  
Sentence 1203: `Behead that
Dormouse!  
Sentence 1204: Turn that Dormouse out of court!  
Sentence 1205: Suppress him!  
Sentence 1206: Pinch
him!  
Sentence 1207: Off with his whiskers!'

  For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the
Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down
again, the cook had disappeared.

  
Sentence 1208: `Never mind!' said the King, with an air of great relief.

Sentence 1209: `Call the next witness.'  
Sentence 1210: And he added in an undertone to the
Queen, `Really, my dear, YOU must cross-examine the next witness.

Sentence 1211: It quite makes my forehead ache!'

  
Sentence 1212: Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list,
feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like,
`--for they haven't got much evidence YET,' she said to herself.

Sentence 1213: Imagine her surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the top
of his shrill little voice, the name `Alice!'



                           CHAPTER XII

                        Alice's Evidence


  `Here!'
Sentence 1214: cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the
moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she
jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with
the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads
of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding
her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset
the week before.

  
Sentence 1215: `Oh, I BEG your pardon!'
Sentence 1216: she exclaimed in a tone of great
dismay, and began picking them up again as quickly as she could,
for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and
she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once
and put back into the jury-box, or they would die.

  
Sentence 1217: `The trial cannot proceed,' said the King in a very grave
voice, `until all the jurymen are back in their proper places--
ALL,' he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as
he said do.

  
Sentence 1218: Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she
had put the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing
was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable
to move.  
Sentence 1219: She soon got it out again, and put it right; `not that
it signifies much,' she said to herself; `I should think it
would be QUITE as much use in the trial one way up as the other.'

  As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of
being upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and
handed back to them, they set to work very diligently to write
out a history of the accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed
too much overcome to do anything but sit with its mouth open,
gazing up into the roof of the court.

  
Sentence 1220: `What do you know about this business?'
Sentence 1221: the King said to
Alice.

  
Sentence 1222: `Nothing,' said Alice.

  
Sentence 1223: `Nothing WHATEVER?' persisted the King.

  
Sentence 1224: `Nothing whatever,' said Alice.

  
Sentence 1225: `That's very important,' the King said, turning to the jury.

Sentence 1226: They were just beginning to write this down on their slates, when
the White Rabbit interrupted:  `UNimportant, your Majesty means,
of course,' he said in a very respectful tone, but frowning and
making faces at him as he spoke.

  
Sentence 1227: `UNimportant, of course, I meant,' the King hastily said, and
went on to himself in an undertone, `important--unimportant--
unimportant--important--' as if he were trying which word
sounded best.

  
Sentence 1228: Some of the jury wrote it down `important,' and some
`unimportant.'  
Sentence 1229: Alice could see this, as she was near enough to
look over their slates; `but it doesn't matter a bit,' she
thought to herself.

  
Sentence 1230: At this moment the King, who had been for some time busily
writing in his note-book, cackled out `Silence!' and read out
from his book, `Rule Forty-two.  
Sentence 1231: ALL PERSONS MORE THAN A MILE
HIGH TO LEAVE THE COURT.'

  
Sentence 1232: Everybody looked at Alice.

  
Sentence 1233: `I'M not a mile high,' said Alice.

  
Sentence 1234: `You are,' said the King.

  
Sentence 1235: `Nearly two miles high,' added the Queen.

  
Sentence 1236: `Well, I shan't go, at any rate,' said Alice:  `besides,
that's not a regular rule:  you invented it just now.'

  `It's the oldest rule in the book,' said the King.

  
Sentence 1237: `Then it ought to be Number One,' said Alice.

  
Sentence 1238: The King turned pale, and shut his note-book hastily.

Sentence 1239: `Consider your verdict,' he said to the jury, in a low, trembling
voice.

  
Sentence 1240: `There's more evidence to come yet, please your Majesty,' said
the White Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; `this paper has
just been picked up.'

  
Sentence 1241: `What's in it?' said the Queen.

  
Sentence 1242: `I haven't opened it yet,' said the White Rabbit, `but it seems
to be a letter, written by the prisoner to--to somebody.'

  `It must have been that,' said the King, `unless it was
written to nobody, which isn't usual, you know.'

  `Who is it directed to?'
Sentence 1243: said one of the jurymen.

  
Sentence 1244: `It isn't directed at all,' said the White Rabbit; `in fact,
there's nothing written on the OUTSIDE.'  
Sentence 1245: He unfolded the paper
as he spoke, and added `It isn't a letter, after all:  it's a set
of verses.'

  `Are they in the prisoner's handwriting?' asked another of
they jurymen.

  
Sentence 1246: `No, they're not,' said the White Rabbit, `and that's the
queerest thing about it.'  
Sentence 1247: (The jury all looked puzzled.)

  
Sentence 1248: `He must have imitated somebody else's hand,' said the King.

Sentence 1249: (The jury all brightened up again.)

  
Sentence 1250: `Please your Majesty,' said the Knave, `I didn't write it, and
they can't prove I did:  there's no name signed at the end.
Sentence 1251: '

  `If you didn't sign it,' said the King, `that only makes the
matter worse.  
Sentence 1252: You MUST have meant some mischief, or else you'd
have signed your name like an honest man.'

  
Sentence 1253: There was a general clapping of hands at this:  it was the
first really clever thing the King had said that day.

  
Sentence 1254: `That PROVES his guilt,' said the Queen.

  
Sentence 1255: `It proves nothing of the sort!' said Alice.  
Sentence 1256: `Why, you don't
even know what they're about!'

  `Read them,' said the King.

  
Sentence 1257: The White Rabbit put on his spectacles.  
Sentence 1258: `Where shall I begin,
please your Majesty?'
Sentence 1259: he asked.

  
Sentence 1260: `Begin at the beginning,' the King said gravely, `and go on
till you come to the end:  then stop.'

  
Sentence 1261: These were the verses the White Rabbit read:--

        `They told me you had been to her,
          And mentioned me to him:
        She gave me a good character,
          But said I could not swim.

        
Sentence 1262: He sent them word I had not gone
          (We know it to be true):
        If she should push the matter on,
          What would become of you?

        
Sentence 1263: I gave her one, they gave him two,
          You gave us three or more;
        They all returned from him to you,
          Though they were mine before.

        
Sentence 1264: If I or she should chance to be
          Involved in this affair,
        He trusts to you to set them free,
          Exactly as we were.

        
Sentence 1265: My notion was that you had been
          (Before she had this fit)
        
Sentence 1266: An obstacle that came between
          Him, and ourselves, and it.

        
Sentence 1267: Don't let him know she liked them best,
          
Sentence 1268: For this must ever be
        A secret, kept from all the rest,
          Between yourself and me.'

  `That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet,'
said the King, rubbing his hands; `so now let the jury--'

  `If any one of them can explain it,' said Alice, (she had
grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit
afraid of interrupting him,) `I'll give him sixpence.  
Sentence 1269: _
Sentence 1270: I_ don't
believe there's an atom of meaning in it.'

  
Sentence 1271: The jury all wrote down on their slates, `SHE doesn't believe
there's an atom of meaning in it,' but none of them attempted to
explain the paper.

  
Sentence 1272: `If there's no meaning in it,' said the King, `that saves a
world of trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any.  
Sentence 1273: And
yet I don't know,' he went on, spreading out the verses on his
knee, and looking at them with one eye; `I seem to see some
meaning in them, after all.  
Sentence 1274: "--SAID I COULD NOT SWIM--" you
can't swim, can you?' he added, turning to the Knave.

  
Sentence 1275: The Knave shook his head sadly.  
Sentence 1276: `Do I look like it?'
Sentence 1277: he said.

Sentence 1278: (Which he certainly did NOT, being made entirely of cardboard.)

  
Sentence 1279: `All right, so far,' said the King, and he went on muttering
over the verses to himself:  `"WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE--" that's
the jury, of course--
Sentence 1280: "I GAVE HER ONE, THEY GAVE HIM TWO--" why,
that must be what he did with the tarts, you know--'

  `But, it goes on "THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU,"' said
Alice.

  
Sentence 1281: `Why, there they are!'
Sentence 1282: said the King triumphantly, pointing to
the tarts on the table.  
Sentence 1283: `Nothing can be clearer than THAT.

Sentence 1284: Then again--"BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT--"  you never had fits, my
dear, I think?'
Sentence 1285: he said to the Queen.

  
Sentence 1286: `Never!' said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the
Lizard as she spoke.  
Sentence 1287: (The unfortunate little Bill had left off
writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no
mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was
trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)

  
Sentence 1288: `Then the words don't FIT you,' said the King, looking round
the court with a smile.  
Sentence 1289: There was a dead silence.

  
Sentence 1290: `It's a pun!'
Sentence 1291: the King added in an offended tone, and
everybody laughed, `Let the jury consider their verdict,' the
King said, for about the twentieth time that day.

  
Sentence 1292: `No, no!' said the Queen.  
Sentence 1293: `Sentence first--verdict afterwards.'

  
Sentence 1294: `Stuff and nonsense!' said Alice loudly.  
Sentence 1295: `The idea of having
the sentence first!'

  `Hold your tongue!' said the Queen, turning purple.

  
Sentence 1296: `I won't!' said Alice.

  
Sentence 1297: `Off with her head!'
Sentence 1298: the Queen shouted at the top of her voice.

Sentence 1299: Nobody moved.

  
Sentence 1300: `Who cares for you?' said Alice, (she had grown to her full
size by this time.)  
Sentence 1301: `You're nothing but a pack of cards!'

  
Sentence 1302: At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying
down upon her:  she gave a little scream, half of fright and half
of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on
the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently
brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the
trees upon her face.

  
Sentence 1303: `Wake up, Alice dear!' said her sister; `Why, what a long
sleep you've had!'

  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!'
Sentence 1304: said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
getting late.'  
Sentence 1305: So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  
Sentence 1306: But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

  First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her
voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes--and
still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little
sister's dream.

  
Sentence 1307: The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried
by--the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the
neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as
the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal,
and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate
guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the
Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it--once
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard's
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
Mock Turtle.

  
Sentence 1308: So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all thy other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

  
Sentence 1309: Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other little children, and make THEIR eyes bright and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             
Sentence 1310: THE END
